you're scary Damon you're a scary David
Cal no hi everyone
Bethany go down here the Internet's
busiest music nerd and it's time for a
review of the new Toro y Moi LP what for
Toro y Moi is the musical pseudonym of
producer multi-instrumentalist singer
songwriter chaz bundok who now has
multiple albums under his belt with this
name at one point chaz was actually one
of the bigger names to come out of
chillwave the sweet psychedelic and
short-lived
micro genre that was kind of a cross
between dream pop and electronic music
much of it was sample based however chaz
quickly moved beyond the sound of his
breakout album causers of this and into
the realms of synth funk and lo-fi
indian psychedelic pop on his album
underneath the pine which features some
of his best singles the song new beat is
easily my favorite off that LP however
chaz followed this kind of decent and
likable album up with an almost
excruciating one anything in return on
this LP Chaz was unearthing some of the
most homely and unlikable elements of
80's pop music and then putting them on
display as if anyone needs to relive the
sound of the New Kids on the Block
each Toro y Moi project since the
release of causes of this has dabbled in
a different era of pop nostalgia and
what for is not really different in that
regard on this LP we get old-school
psychedelic pop and rock mixed with a
bit of funk and disco it's like an
amalgamation of music that could have
been released anywhere between 1966 and
1976 not totally sure if we need Chas
reliving the past for us once again
but there are some redeeming qualities
to this LP that are worth noting
for one this album features some of Toro
y Moi x' catchiest songs yet as well as
some of the projects most carefully and
fantastically assembled instrumentals
yet bass guitars drums keyboards vocals
coming to
other to create some pretty groovy funky
but also detailed and and sweet pop
instrumentals in the past the kind of
shoddy instrumental limitations of Toro
y Moi how back some of Chaz's
reanimations of synth funk and pop not
so much the case on what for for example
the song empty-nesters which has a jam
in its runtime or the track run baby run
which kicks off like an honest-to-god
tender ballad also I think the vocals
are a step up on this album Chaz is not
one of my favorite singers but he seems
to be mixing his vocals a little higher
on this album putting a bit more effort
into his singing singing singing the
production on this LP is pretty good too
it's not a total nostalgia fest while it
does feel vintage it does feel
old-school Chaz is a homegrown producer
so his kind of quirky approach to mixing
and recording shines through on these
songs plus Chaz's appreciation and love
of modern indie rock and pop gives these
tracks a modern punch - for example the
song yeah right which is the closing
track here which at its core feels kind
of like a Weezer song but it's enmeshed
in this lazy sun-baked
70 soft rock instrumentation it's pretty
sweet in the orchestral instrumentation
that finishes the song off was an
incredibly nice touch the record is 36
minutes there's not really a whole lot
of room for BS Chaz has come out with
records in the past that are about the
same length however I have found them to
be loaded with very unmemorable songs
and filler not so much the case with
what for with this album I just feel
like I'm listening to an alternative pop
songwriter hone his craft and in a way
approach the danceable sweet and catchy
eccentricity of people like Ariel pink
or Arthur Russell and I think people who
are in the Hot Chip or even Chromeo
would appreciate this album - the
opening track on here features some
incredibly fat warm round drums and bass
they feel like they are compressed to
the point where they are bleeding into
one
another like I'm listening to this song
on a really old cassette tape and I like
that tape sound on this song but it does
get excessively muddy at points on the
song Buffalo a dance beat pops in it's a
quality disco tune with a lot of quirk
at a very smooth bass line the vocals
feel a little limited at points kind of
strained again Chazz is not really an
amazing singer but he does seem to be
putting in more effort with putting the
vocals up front especially on the track
spell it out this to me was a great
moment for the vocals on this record he
has all these multitrack bits of I guess
spoken word or just kind of I don't know
monotone singing or like chanting it was
just really ear grabbing it and kind of
energetic and exciting but even though
the album continues to dish out some
pretty good instrumentals like on the
song the flight it's kind of
disheartening to hear the singing over
these instrumentals just kind of stiff
and lifeless the instrumentals on on
these tracks they feel so fluid and in
lush and poppy but then Chazz over this
song he is just singing in such a but I
loved the appearance of piano on this
track really gorgeous solo essentially
the album here just kind of swings back
and forth between these psych pop tunes
and these dance pop tunes with a disco
flare a weird mix of styles for one
record but Chaz's approach to production
and his singing even though it does have
its low points makes this record feel
pretty cohesive and despite the tracks
that are more forgettable than others on
this LP the entire album is just
similarly sweet and warm kind of like a
s'more now personally I've never really
been that big of a sweet sky but this
record certainly puts me in the mood for
sweets I'm feeling a decent too strong 7
on this thing transition if you've given
this album a listen what did you think
of it did you love it did you hate it
why what do you think I should review
next and that's it Anthony Fantana music
forever